Update medic.md (#33)
SynixeContractors/Documents: specialists/medical/medic.md

**Pneumothorax**: An injury to the thorax that can be heard with a stethoscope. It can be diagnosed by seeing blood oxygen levels dropping quickly on the pulse oximeter. This is currently treated by using a chest seal on the patient’s thorax. A patient cannot have all three of these ailments.

## Medical Equipment
### Airways
**Guedel Tubes**: Allows an unconscious patient to breathe by preventing the airways from being blocked. Will be removed when the patient is conscious. With a guedel tube applied to the patient you or another person will have to listen for audio cues to know when the patient throws up meaning the airway will be occluded and head turning will need to be done until the airway is no longer occluded. Alternatively, an accuvac can be used to clear the occlusion. A Guedel Tube satisfies the “Airway Management Needed” aspect of the airways.

> **KingLT’s**: KingLT’s are similar to the guedel tubes in that they allow a patient to breathe by preventing the airways from being blocked. However, after you use a KingLT on a patient you WILL NOT have to worry about the patient’s airways becoming occluded again until they wake up. These are good to use in a mass casualty event where there are multiple patients and all contractors still conscious are busy returning fire. A KingLT satisfies the “Airway Management Needed” aspect of the airways.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**KingLT**: KingLTs are similar to the guedel tubes in that they allow a patient to breathe by preventing the airways from being blocked. However, after you use a KingLT on a patient you WILL NOT have to worry about the patient’s airways becoming occluded again until they wake up. These are good to use in a mass casualty event where there are multiple patients and all contractors still conscious are busy returning fire. A KingLT satisfies the “Airway Management Needed” aspect of the airways.
```

**Splint**: Used to stabilize a patient after a fracture.

### Bandages and Surgical Kit

**Packing**: Medium effectiveness, high chance to reopen, but excellent delay until a wound opens up again. Basically, an in-combat ‘fix now, medic later’ solution. A rifleman's best friend.

**Elastic**: Highest effect, worst chance to reopen, lowest delay. These are great to get through an emergency, but otherwise inefficient. Good for quickly stopping bleeds but will require stitching within a few minutes.

**QuikClot**: Lowest effect, lowest chance to reopen, excellent delay. Its low effect means it is great for small wounds but needs substantial volume for large wounds; then used in calm situations with a large supply and supplementing packing.

**Surgical Kit**: Used to perform stitching on bandaged wounds.

**Suture**: Used with the Surgical Kit to close wounds. One suture is used per wound group. You can have multiple wound groups per limb. For an example if the patient needs stitches on two limbs, it will use two sutures, however if they have multiple wounds causing bleeding on the limb it will require you to use as many sutures as there are wounds bleeding.

### Saline

> Saline is used to raise the Blood Pressure of a patient as well as stabilize a patient. It comes in these amounts; 250 Milliliters, 500 Milliliters, and 1000 Milliliters. For reference, an uninjured person has around 6 liters of blood in the body and 1 liter is equal to 1 thousand Milliliters. The minimal amount of saline needed to get someone up is 5.1 liters or “lost some blood” status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Saline is used to raise the Blood Pressure of a patient as well as stabilize a patient. It comes in these amounts; 250ml, 500ml, and 1000ml. For reference, the average person has a baseline around 6000 ml. The minimal amount of blood needed for someone to wake up is 5100ml or “lost some blood” status.
```
